
This is a plugin to provide integrated debugging from Geany using the GNU
debugger (gdb). It was developed and tested on openSUSE-10.3 with GDB-6.7.50.
Other recent versions of GDB will probably work, but operating systems other
than Linux-PC will not work, at least not without some considerable hacking.

There is no real documentation, but if you hover your mouse over the buttons
in the "Debug" sidebar panel in Geany the tooltips should give you some idea
of what to do next. There are also a few "rough draft" notes below:

Most of the console output from GDB is sent to the "Compiler" message window
in Geany, and you can send standard commands to GDB using the "Console" entry
on the debug sidebar. This should be used with caution, since GDB's machine
interface and console interface don't always play well together.

Also note that the plugin sets its own internal breakpoint #1 to grab the
program's PID on startup, so any user-specified breakpoint numbers begin
at #2, and if you manually delete the #1 breakpoint it will likely cause
you some problems.

Whenever the target program hits a breakpoint or encounters a segfault etc.
it will try to open the appropriate source file and jump to the correct line.

To examine the state of the program's variables, you can click on the "Stack"
button in the debug sidebar. Note that the interaction between the plugin and
the debugger can sometimes be quite slow, so please be patient when waiting
for the dialogs to open.

The "Add breakpoint", "Add watchpoint", and "Run to" dialogs will try to
suggest some values based on your current position in whatever file you
have open in Geany, but if you don't like the choice, just click the "Clear"
button and type in whatever you please.

The plugin tries to enable only the buttons that are relevant to the current
state, but ocassionally it might end up getting things wrong. If this happens,
you should be able to click the "Unload" button and everything will be reset.

If you try to unload the plugin using the plugin manager while it has a
program loaded, the plugin manager might appear to hang for a few seconds,
while GDB tries to shut down. Again, just be patient, but note that it is
much better use the "Unload" button in the debug sidebar before trying to
disable the plugin.

There also seems to be some conflict with the GeanyLua plugin, if you have
any ~/.geany/plugins/events/ scripts. ( The GeanyLua author tells me it is
a problem with that plugin, and it will be fixed in the 0.6.2 release. :-)


